.TH ydcmd 1 "July 22, 2014"
.nh
.ad left
.SH NAME
ydcmd \- command line client for interacting with cloud storage Yandex.Disk by means of REST API.
.SH SYNTAX
.B ydcmd
.RI [ command ] " " [ options ] " " [ args ]
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B help
Returns brief info on application's commands and options.
.TP
.B ls
Returns a list of files and directories.
.TP
.B rm
Deletes a file or directory.
.TP
.B cp
Copies a file or directory.
.TP
.B mv
Moves a file or directory.
.TP
.B put
Uploads a file or directory into the storage.
.TP
.B get
Retrieves a file or directory from the storage.
.TP
.B mkdir
Creates a directory.
.TP
.B stat
Returns meta-information about an object.
.TP
.B info
Returns meta-information about a storage.
.TP
.B last
Returns meta-information about last uploaded files.
.TP
.B share
Publish uploaded object (obtaining direct link).
.TP
.B revoke
Unpublish uploaded object.
.TP
.B du
Evaluates the disk space used by files within the storage.
.TP
.B clean
Cleans files and directories.
.TP
.B token
Get OAuth token for application.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --timeout=<N>
Timeout (in seconds) for establishing a network connection.
.TP
.B --retries=<N>
Number of attempts of API method invocation before returning an error code.
.TP
.B --delay=<N>
Timeout (in seconds) between attempts of API method invocation.
.TP
.B --limit=<N>
The number of items returned after a single invocation of a method for obtaining a list of files and directories.
.TP
.B --token=<S>
OAuth token (for security purposes, should be specified in the configuration file or through an environment variable YDCMD_TOKEN). Instructions on obtaining a debugging token can be found on the following page http://api.yandex.com/oauth/doc/dg/tasks/get-oauth-token.xml.
.TP
.B --quiet
Error output suppression.
.TP
.B --verbose
Returns expanded information.
.TP
.B --debug
Returns debug information.
.TP
.B --chunk=<N>
Data block size (in KB) for I/O operations.
.TP
.B --ca-file=<S>
File name with certificates of trusted certification authorities (if the value is null, certificate validation is not performed).
.TP
.B --ciphers=<S>
Set of encryption algorithms (see ciphers(1)).
.SH ADDITIONAL OPTIONS
.SS ls
.TP
.B --human
Returns file size (in human-readable form).
.TP
.B --short
Returns a list of files and directories without additional information (one name per line).
.TP
.B --long
Returns an extended list (creation time, modification time, size, file name).
.TP
If a target object is not specified, then the storage's root directory will be used.
.SS rm
.TP
.B --poll=<N>
Interval (in seconds) between status polls during an asynchronous operation.
.TP
.B --async
Runs a command without waiting for operation to terminate (poll).
.TP
Files are deleted permanently. Directories are deleted recursively (including sub files and sub directories).
.SS cp
.TP
.B --poll=<N>
Interval (in seconds) between status polls during an asynchronous operation.
.TP
.B --async
Runs a command without waiting for operation to terminate (poll).
.TP
In case of name coincidence, directories and files will be overwritten. Directories are copied recursively (including sub folders and sub directories).
.SS mv
.TP
.B --poll=<N>
Interval (in seconds) between status polls during an asynchronous operation.
.TP
.B --async
Runs a command without waiting for operation to terminate (poll).
.TP
In case of name coincidence, directories and files will be overwritten.
.SS put
.TP
.B --rsync
Synchronizes a tree of files and directories in the storage with a local tree
.TP
.B --encrypt
Encryption of files using --encrypt-cmd before uploading to the storage.
.TP
.B --encrypt-cmd
Command sending to stdin the contents of the local (unencrypted) file and sending its encrypted version to stdout.
.TP
.B --temp-dir
A directory for storing temporary encrypted files.
.TP
If a target object is not specified, then the storage's root directory will be used for uploading a file. If a target object denotes a directory (ends with '/'), then the source file name will be added to the directory's name. If a target object exists, it will be overwritten without a confirmation prompt. Symbolic links are ignored.
.SS get
.TP
.B --rsync
Synchronizes a local tree of files and directories with a tree in the storage.
.TP
.B --decrypt
Decryption of files using --decrypt-cmd after obtaining them from the storage.
.TP
.B --decrypt-cmd
Command sending to stdin the contents of an encrypted file from the storage and sending its unencrypted version to stdout.
.TP
.B --temp-dir
A directory for storing temporary encrypted files.
.TP
If the target file's name is not specified, the file's name within the storage will be used. If a target object exists, it will be overwritten without a confirmation prompt.
.SS info
.TP
.B --long
Returns sizes in bytes instead of human-readable form.
.SS last
.TP
.B --human
Returns file size (in human-readable form).
.TP
.B --short
Returns a list of files without additional information (one name per line).
.TP
.B --long
Returns an extended list (creation time, modification time, size, file name).
.TP
If argument N is not specified, default REST API value will be used.
.SS du
.TP
.B --depth=<N>
Returns the sizes of directories up to the level N.
.TP
.B --long
Returns sizes in bytes instead of human-readable form.
.TP
If a target object is not specified, then the storage's root directory will be used.
.SS clean
.TP
.B --dry
Returns a list of objects for removal, instead of deleting.
.TP
.B --type=<S>
The type of objects for removal ('file' - files, 'dir' - directories, 'all' - all).
.TP
.B --keep=<S>
Value of selection criteria related to objects to be saved:
.br
* A date string in ISO format can be used to select a date up to which you want to delete the data (for example, '2014-02-12T12:19:05+04:00');
.br
* For selecting a relative time, you can use a number and a dimension (for example, '7d', '4w', '1m', '1y');
.br
* For selecting the number of copies, you can use a number without a dimension (for example, '31').
.SH CONFIGURATION
.TP
For convenience, we recommend creating a configuration file named ~/.ydcmd.cfg and granting it file permissions 0600 or 0400. File format:
.P
.RS
[ydcmd]
.br
# comment
.br
<option> = <value>
.RE
.TP
For example:
.P
.RS
[ydcmd]
.br
token   = 1234567890
.br
verbose = yes
.br
ca-file = /etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B YDCMD_TOKEN
OAuth token. Has priority over the option --token.
.TP
.B SSL_CERT_FILE
File name with certificates of trusted certification authorities. Has priority over the option `--ca-file`.
.SH EXIT CODE
.TP
.B 0
Successful completion.
.TP
.B 1
General application error.
.TP
.B 4
HTTP status code 4xx (client error).
.TP
.B 5
HTTP status code 5xx (server error).
